File paths, organization and notebooks (#35)
fhdsl/Tools_for_Reproducible_Workflows_in_R: 05-setting-up.Rmd

ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g21a84b32106_0_13")
```

## Understand why project organization is key to reproducible analyses

Keeping your files organized is a skill that has a high long-term payoff. As you are in the thick of an analysis, you may underestimate how many files and terms you have floating around. But a short time later, you may return to your files and realize your organization was not as clear as you hoped.  

@Tayo2019 discusses four particular reasons why it is important to organize your project:

> > 1. Organization increases productivity. If a project is well organized, with everything placed in one directory, it makes it easier to avoid wasting time searching for project files such as datasets, codes, output files, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 1. Organization **increases productivity**. If a project is well organized, with everything placed in one directory, it makes it easier to avoid wasting time searching for project files such as datasets, codes, output files, and so on.
```

Reviewer: making it a tad more readable with some bolding

> > 2. A well-organized project helps you to keep and maintain a record of your ongoing and completed data science projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 2. A well-organized project helps you to keep and **maintain a record** of your ongoing and completed data science projects.
```

> > 3. Completed data science projects could be used for building future models. If you have to solve a similar problem in the future, you can use the same code with slight modifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 3. Completed data science projects could be used for **building future models**. If you have to solve a similar problem in the future, you can use the same code with slight modifications.
```

> > 4. A well-organized project can easily be understood by other data science professionals when shared on platforms such as Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 4. A well-organized project can **easily be understood** by other data science professionals when shared on platforms such as Github.
```

Organization is yet another aspect of reproducibility that saves you and your colleagues time!

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Major point!! example image"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g2fea8805c08_0_1121")
```

## General principles of project organization

> Project organization should work for you and not the other way around. Maintainably organized should be the goal. Something that is effective but can be maintained long term. As you can imagine, organizational schemes are not one size fits all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project organization should work for you and not the other way around. The goal should be organization that is maintainable long term.  As you might imagine, the optimal organizational scheme might differ from one individual to another or even one project to another. 
```

Reviewer: just making this easier to read

Reviewer: hmmm since we say one size fits all thing right after I also changed this slightly to use different phrasing

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Major point!! example image"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g2fea8805c08_0_426")
```

> There's a lot of ways to keep your files organized, and there's not a "one size fits all" organizational solution [@Shapiro2021]. In this chapter, we will discuss some generalities but as far as specifics we will point you to others who have written about works for them and advise that you use them as inspiration to figure out a strategy that works for you and your team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's a lot of ways to keep your files organized, and there's not a "one size fits all" organizational solution [@Shapiro2021]. In this chapter, we will discuss some generalities; but for specifics, we will point you to others who have written about what works for them. We suggest that you use them as inspiration to figure out a strategy that works for you and your team.
```

The most important aspects of your project organization scheme is that it:  

- Is [project-oriented](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2017/12/workflow-vs-script/) [@Bryan2017].  
- Follows consistent patterns [@Shapiro2021].  
- Is easy for you and others to find the files you need quickly [@Shapiro2021].  
- Minimizes the likelihood for errors (like writing over files accidentally) [@Shapiro2021].  
- Is something maintainable [@Shapiro2021]!

> 

Reviewer: idk why but these resources all have question marks in the render preview

Author: AH shoot I must be missing the references in the bib file. Will look into this.

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Major point!! example image"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g2fea8805c08_0_421")
```

### READMEs!

READMEs are also a great way to help your collaborators get quickly acquainted with the project.

```{r, fig.align='center', echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Avi is looking at a set of project files that include a file called a ‘README.md’. Avi says 'I had no idea where to start with this analysis that Ruby sent me to review, but then I saw she included a README and that saved me so much time and effort in getting started!'"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LMurysUhCjZb7DVF6KS9QmJ5NBjwWVjRn40MS9f2noE/edit#slide=id.gf8379bb805_0_11")
```

> READMEs stick out in a project and are generally universal signal for new people to the project to start by READing them. GitHub automatically will preview your file called "README.md" when someone comes to the main page of your repository which further encourages people looking at your project to read the information in your README.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
READMEs stick out in a project and are generally universal signal for new people to the project to start by READing them. GitHub automatically will preview your file called "README.md" when someone comes to the main page of your repository. This further encourages people looking at your project to read the information in your README.
```

> **Information that should be included in a README:**

Reviewer: Maybe include who is involved in the project or who to contact? (I imagine some people will not be on GitHub)

Reviewer: Maybe we should talk about licenses?

Reviewer: Could do it briefly

Reviewer: added something below!

1) General purpose of the project
2) Instructions on how to re-run the project
3) Lists of any software required by the project

> 4) Input and output file descriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) Input and output file descriptions
```

> 5) Descriptions of any additional tools included in the project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5) Descriptions of any additional tools included in the project
```

You can take a look at this [template README](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhudsl/Reproducibility_in_Cancer_Informatics/main/resources/README-template.md) to get your started.

> #### More about writing READMEs:

Reviewer: Maybe we could add examples of some really awesome READMEs?

Reviewer: maybe one of stephanie's https://github.com/stephaniehicks/qsmooth

or Leo's: https://github.com/lcolladotor/derfinder

Reviewer: I added these below

> - [How to write a good README file](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-a-good-readme-file/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [How to write a good README file by Hillary Nyakundi](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-a-good-readme-file/)
```

Reviewer: these just looked funny next to each other haha and thought it might be good to add the authors :)

> - [How to write an awesome README](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-write-an-awesome-readme-68bf4be91f8b)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [How to write an awesome README by Navendu Pottekkat](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-write-an-awesome-readme-68bf4be91f8b)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Examples of good READMEs:

- https://github.com/stephaniehicks/qsmooth
- https://github.com/lcolladotor/derfinder
- https://github.com/tidyverse/dplyr

```

Author: Awesome!

### Example organization scheme

Getting more specific, here's some ideas of how to organize your project:  

> - **Make file names informative** to those who don't have knowledge of the project but avoid using spaces, quotes, or unusual characters in your filenames and folders -- these only serve to make reading in files a nightmare in some programs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Make file names informative** to those who don't have knowledge of the project -- but avoid using spaces, quotes, or unusual characters in your filenames and folders, as these can make reading in files a nightmare with some programs.
```

- **Number scripts** in the order that they are run.

> - **Keep like-files together** in their own directory: results tables with other results tables, etc. _Including most importantly keeping raw data separate from processed data or other results!_

Reviewer: maybe could add sub listing for raw data separate from processed data so we can say a bit more about why? (that it helps us keep  from overwriting our raw data)

- **Put source scripts and functions in their own directory**. Things that should never need to be called directly by yourself or anyone else.
- **Put output in its own directories** like `results` and `plots`.
- **Have a central document (like a README)** that describes the basic information about the analysis and how to re-run it.

> - Make it easy on yourself, **dates aren't necessary**. The computer keeps track of those.

Reviewer: Maybe need a bit more info about this... that dates of file updates aren't necessary? if a survey is from 2020 that might be necessary

Reviewer: see below

- **Make a central script that re-runs everything** -- including the creation of the folders! (more on this in a later chapter)

> Let's see what these principles might look like put into practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's see what these principles might look in practice.
```

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Major point!! example image"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g2fea8805c08_0_442")
```

Here's an example of what this might look like:
```
project-name/
├── run_analysis.sh
├── 00-download-data.sh
├── 01-make-heatmap.Rmd
├── README.md
├── plots/
│   └── project-name-heatmap.png
├── results/
│   └── top_gene_results.tsv
├── raw-data/
│   ├── project-name-raw.tsv
│   └── project-name-metadata.tsv
├── processed-data/
│   ├── project-name-quantile-normalized.tsv
└── util/
    ├── plotting-functions.R
    └── data-wrangling-functions.R
```

**What these hypothetical files and folders contain:**

> - `run_analysis.sh` - A central script that runs everything again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `run_analysis.sh` - A central script that runs everything
```

- `00-download-data.sh` - The script that needs to be run first and is called by run_analysis.sh
- `01-make-heatmap.Rmd` - The script that needs to be run second and is also called by run_analysis.sh

> - `README.md` - The document that has the information that will orient someone to this project, we'll discuss more about how to create a helpful README in [an upcoming chapter](https://jhudatascience.org/Reproducibility_in_Cancer_Informatics/documenting-analyses.html#readmes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `README.md` - The document that has the information that will orient someone to this project
```

Reviewer: We now describe this in this chapter

- `plots` - A folder of plots and resulting images

> - `results` - A folder results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `results` - A folder of results
```

> - `raw-data` - Data files as they first arrive and **nothing** has been done to them yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `raw-data` - Data files as they first arrive and **nothing** has been done to them yet
```

> - `processed-data` - Data that has been modified from the raw in some way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `processed-data` - Data that has been modified from the raw in some way
```

- `util` - A folder of utilities that never needs to be called or touched directly unless troubleshooting something

> There are lots of ideas out there for organizational strategies. Key is finding one that fits your team and your project. You can read through some of these articles to think about what kind of organizational strategy might work for you and your team:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are lots of ideas out there for organizational strategies. The key is finding one that fits your team and your project. You can read through some of these articles to think about what kind of organizational strategy might work for you and your team:   
```

> - [Reproducible R example](https://github.com/jhudsl/reproducible-r-example)

Reviewer: could site yourself?

- [Jenny Bryan's organizational strategies](https://www.stat.ubc.ca/~jenny/STAT545A/block19_codeFormattingOrganization.html) [@Bryan2021].
- [Danielle Navarro's organizational strategies](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRPB0ZzEYegPiBteC2dRn95TX9YefYFyy) @Navarro2021
- [Jenny Bryan on Project-oriented workflows](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2017/12/workflow-vs-script/)[@Bryan2017].
- [Data Carpentry mini-course about organizing projects](https://datacarpentry.org/organization-genomics/) [@DataCarpentry2021].
- [Andrew Severin's strategy for organization](https://bioinformaticsworkbook.org/projectManagement/Intro_projectManagement.html#gsc.tab=0) [@Severin2021].
- [A BioStars thread where many individuals share their own organizational strategies](https://www.biostars.org/p/821/) [@Biostars2021].
- [Data Carpentry course chapter about getting organized](https://bioinformatics-core-shared-training.github.io/shell-genomics/07-organization/index.html) [@DataCarpentry2019].

## Navigate file paths

> In point and click apps (called Graphics User Interfaces) you navigate to files by clicking on folders. But for R programming and other command line interfaces, we navigate and use files by using `file paths`. `File paths` are series of folders it takes to get to the file, not unlike a street address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In point and click apps (called [Graphical User Interfaces (or GUI pronounced like the word gooey)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphical_user_interface) you navigate to files by clicking on folders. But for R programming and other command line interfaces, we navigate and use files by using `file paths`. `File paths` are the series of folders that it takes to get to a file, not unlike a street address.
```

> To make an analogy, if someone asked you directions to a particular building, the directions you give would be tailored based on where this person located. In other words your directions would be relative to their location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make an analogy, if someone asked you directions to a particular building, the directions you would give would be tailored based on where the person asking is located. In other words your directions would be relative to their location.
```

But file paths can be *relative* or *absolute*.

> In the same way, your computer can be given absolute directions to a file - basically the directions with absolute directions or they can be relative to where you are calling the command in the computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your computer can be given directions relative to where you are calling the command in the computer or they can be absolute directions to a file - basically the full directions to that file, regardless of where you might be already on your computer.  
```

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Major point!! example image"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g2fea8805c08_0_1337")
```
So in our above analogy, if you are trying to direct someone to somewhere on Johns Hopkins’ campus with a file path:

An absolute file path would be:
`/Earth/North America/United States/Maryland/Baltimore/Johns Hopkins University/Street Name/Building number`

Whereas if the person was already in Baltimore, a relative file path would be:
`Johns Hopkins University/Street Name/Building number`

The end of a path string may be a file name if you are creating a path to a file. If you are creating a path to a folder, the path string will end with the destination folder.

To know your location within a file system is to know exactly what folder you are in right now. The folder that you are in right now is called the `working directory` aka your "Current Location".  In the above analogy a person being located in Baltimore would be their working directory. In a path, folder names are separated by forward slashes `/`

> Note that a relative directory may be different between different apps: RStudio versus Terminal versus something else. So you if you switch between the `Console` and `Terminal` tabs, you will have to pay attention to what your `working directory` is. This is also different from the `Files` pane which has no bearing on your working directory either.

Reviewer: hmmmm wondering if we describe this in the rstudio section - will make a note

Reviewer: We might need to recap that here though

Author: Yeah you describe it there

> Note that a relative directory may be different between different apps: RStudio versus Terminal versus something else. So you if you switch between the `Console` and `Terminal` tabs, you will have to pay attention to what your `working directory` is. This is also different from the `Files` pane which has no bearing on your working directory either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that a relative directory may be different between different apps: RStudio versus Terminal versus something else. So you if you switch between the `Console` and `Terminal` tabs, you will have to pay attention to what your `working directory` is. This is also different from the `Files` pane which has no bearing on your working directory either. The terminal tab is located in the Console pane in RStudio, which is usually the lower left pane (with default settings).  You can use the terminal to work with files using the command line. 
```

Reviewer: tried adding something here

> Returning to computer files. In your Terminal you can see your working directory at the top of the Terminal window or at the beginning of the terminal prompt. Knowing this, this can tell you how you need to change the command you are entering. Let’s say you want to list, using the `ls` command, a file called `file.txt`.

Reviewer: maybe need an image of this

Reviewer: I started one here but had to leave haha: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g31fc7298e99_0_0

Reviewer: ok Im adding one... but I feel like we need a tad more walk though of the command line stuff

Author: That might be its own chapter before we get here?

Reviewer: yeah and file paths are so hard for people to understand too - maybe better on it's own as well?

Reviewer: want to merge this and then decide if we want to expand later?

READMEs are also a great way to help your collaborators get quickly acquainted with the project.

```{r, fig.align='center', echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Avi is looking at a set of project files that include a file called a ‘README.md’. Avi says 'I had no idea where to start with this analysis that Ruby sent me to review, but then I saw she included a README and that saved me so much time and effort in getting started!'"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LMurysUhCjZb7DVF6KS9QmJ5NBjwWVjRn40MS9f2noE/edit#slide=id.gf8379bb805_0_11")
```

READMEs stick out in a project and are generally universal signal for new people to the project to start by READing them. GitHub automatically will preview your file called "README.md" when someone comes to the main page of your repository. This further encourages people looking at your project to read the information in your README.

**Information that should be included in a README:**

1) General purpose of the project
2) Instructions on how to re-run the project
3) Lists of any software required by the project
4) Input and output file descriptions
5) Descriptions of any additional tools included in the project

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6) License for how your materials should be used
```

You can take a look at this [template README](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhudsl/Reproducibility_in_Cancer_Informatics/main/resources/README-template.md) to get your started.

#### More about writing READMEs:

- [How to write a good README file by Hillary Nyakundi](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-a-good-readme-file/)
- [How to write an awesome README by Navendu Pottekkat](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-write-an-awesome-readme-68bf4be91f8b)

#### Examples of good READMEs:

- https://github.com/stephaniehicks/qsmooth
- https://github.com/lcolladotor/derfinder
- https://github.com/tidyverse/dplyr

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Licensing

Adding information about a license is not always required, but it can be a good idea. If you put your code on GitHub, then the default copyright laws apply.  According to GitHub:

> "You retain all rights to your source code and no one may reproduce, distribute, or create derivative works from your work. If you're creating an open source project, we strongly encourage you to include an open source license."

::: dictionary
Open source software or code means that it is distributed with a license that allows others to reuse or adapt your code for other purposes. This is very helpful to advance science and technology. 
:::

Check out this great resource on [options for licenses](https://choosealicense.com/) to help you choose which license is right for your project.
```

Author: Good call!

### Example organization scheme

Getting more specific, here's some ideas of how to organize your project:  

- **Make file names informative** to those who don't have knowledge of the project -- but avoid using spaces, quotes, or unusual characters in your filenames and folders, as these can make reading in files a nightmare with some programs.
- **Number scripts** in the order that they are run.
- **Keep like-files together** in their own directory: results tables with other results tables, etc. _Including most importantly keeping raw data separate from processed data or other results!_
- **Put source scripts and functions in their own directory**. Things that should never need to be called directly by yourself or anyone else.
- **Put output in its own directories** like `results` and `plots`.
- **Have a central document (like a README)** that describes the basic information about the analysis and how to re-run it.

> - Make it easy on yourself, **dates aren't necessary**. The computer keeps track of those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make it easy on yourself, **dates aren't necessary** to track for file updates.  The computer keeps track of when a file was updated.
```

Reviewer: I added some nuance/explanation  here

Author: PERF

- [Data Carpentry course chapter about getting organized](https://bioinformatics-core-shared-training.github.io/shell-genomics/07-organization/index.html) [@DataCarpentry2019].

## Navigate file paths

In point and click apps (called [Graphical User Interfaces (or GUI pronounced like the word gooey)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphical_user_interface) you navigate to files by clicking on folders. But for R programming and other command line interfaces, we navigate and use files by using `file paths`. `File paths` are the series of folders that it takes to get to a file, not unlike a street address.

To make an analogy, if someone asked you directions to a particular building, the directions you would give would be tailored based on where the person asking is located. In other words your directions would be relative to their location.

But file paths can be *relative* or *absolute*.

Your computer can be given directions relative to where you are calling the command in the computer or they can be absolute directions to a file - basically the full directions to that file, regardless of where you might be already on your computer.  

> ```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Major point!! example image"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "A relative path might be from the local neighborhood to johns hopkins, where as a relative path is analogous to a path that could direct you from further away, so state information would also be included"}
```

`Johns Hopkins University/Street Name/Building number`

The end of a path string may be a file name if you are creating a path to a file. If you are creating a path to a folder, the path string will end with the destination folder.

To know your location within a file system is to know exactly what folder you are in right now. The folder that you are in right now is called the `working directory` aka your "Current Location".  In the above analogy a person being located in Baltimore would be their working directory. In a path, folder names are separated by forward slashes `/`

Note that a relative directory may be different between different apps: RStudio versus Terminal versus something else. So you if you switch between the `Console` and `Terminal` tabs, you will have to pay attention to what your `working directory` is. This is also different from the `Files` pane which has no bearing on your working directory either. The terminal tab is located in the Console pane in RStudio, which is usually the lower left pane (with default settings).  You can use the terminal to work with files using the command line. 

> Returning to computer files. In your Terminal you can see your working directory at the top of the Terminal window or at the beginning of the terminal prompt. Knowing this, this can tell you how you need to change the command you are entering. Let’s say you want to list, using the `ls` command, a file called `file.txt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returning to computer files, we can have relative or absolute paths based on where we are on the computer. If we are looking for a file in a directory that is on the desktop, then we can have a path from the desktop that is shorter than the absolute path which would identify where the file is overall.

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Relative path on a computer might be from the desktop to a file in a directory called work and would simply be work/file.txt, while an absolute path would be the full path to the directory you might want to work with such as Users/reproducibilityparrot/desktop/work/file.txt"} ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g31fc7298e99_0_0")```

In your Terminal you can see your working directory at the top of the Terminal window or at the beginning of the terminal prompt. Knowing this, this can tell you how you need to change the command you are entering. Let’s say you want to list, using the `ls` command, a file called `file.txt`.

```{r, fig.align='center', out.width="100%", echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "We can use the terminal tab to see our files or the files pane tab. We can list files in the Terminal tab with the command ls. We can also navigate around within the file pane to see files."} ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MNHf8JpolaEP_vQ_kB-1xRBF9wo3haCArRu117hBoHA/edit#slide=id.g31fc7298e99_0_40")```

```

> Alternatively, you can specify an absolute path. An absolute path starts at the root directory of a file system. The root directory does not have a name like other folders do. It is specified with a single forward slash `/` and is special in that it cannot be contained within other folders. In the current file system, the root directory contains a folder called cloud, which contains a folder called project which contains the folder `data_analysis_project`, which has the file.txt file we are looking for.

Reviewer: I am not quite sure what this is referring to, maybe this is earlier? but I made a simpler example without clouds etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An absolute path starts at the root directory of a file system. The root directory does not have a name like other folders do. It is specified with a single forward slash `/` and is special in that it cannot be contained within other folders. 
```

Reviewer: > I am not quite sure what this is referring to, maybe this is earlier? but I made a simpler example without clouds etc.

It should be more clear what I did when you look at the slides

http://projecttemplate.net/

### Scientific notebooks (Rmd or qmd)

> The generous use and keeping of notebooks is a useful tool for documentation of the development of an analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using notebooks can be a very helpful tool for documenting the development of an analysis.
```

Data analyses can lead one on a winding trail of decisions and side investigations, but notebooks allow you to narrate your thought process as you travel along these analyses explorations!

```{r, fig.align='center', echo = FALSE, fig.alt= "Ruby is looking at her computer that has a lovely notebook with a heatmap! Ruby says ‘Working from this notebook allows me to interactively develop on my data analysis and write down my thoughts about the process all in one place!’"}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LMurysUhCjZb7DVF6KS9QmJ5NBjwWVjRn40MS9f2noE/edit#slide=id.gf8f405fdab_0_186")
```

**Your scientific notebook should include descriptions that describe:**   

#### The purposes of the notebook

> What scientific question are you trying to answer? Describe the dataset you are using to try to answer this and why does it help answer this question?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be helpful to others and your future self to describe:

- The scientific question are you trying to answer
- The dataset you are using to try to answer this question
- An explanation for the choice of the dataset to help answer this question
```

#### The rationales behind your decisions

> Describe why a particular code chunk is doing a particular thing -- the more odd the code looks, the greater need for you to describe why you are doing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describe  major code decisions. For example, why you chose to use specific packages or why you took certain steps in that specific order. This can be very general to very specific, such as why a particular code chunk is doing a particular thing. The  more possible options there were for choices or the more unusual a process that you might have taken, the greater the need to describe why you made certain decisions.
```

> Describe any particular filters or cutoffs you are using and how did you decide on those?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describe any particular filters or cutoffs you are using and how did you decided on those.
```

> For data wrangling steps, why are you wrangling the data in such a way -- is this because a certain package you are using requires it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For data wrangling steps, describe why you are wrangling the data in such a way. Is this because a certain package you are using requires it?
```

#### Your observations of the results

> What do you think about the results? The plots and tables you show in the notebook -- how do they inform your original questions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section it is helpful to include:

- What do you currently think about the results? 
- What do you think about the plots and tables you show in the notebook -- how do they inform your original questions?
```

> There are two major types of notebooks folks use in the R programming language: R Markdown files and Quarto files. In the next section we will discuss these notebooks, how they are the same, how they are different, and how to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two major types of notebooks folks use in the R programming language: R Markdown files and Quarto files. In the next section we will discuss these notebooks, the similarities and differences between these two options, and how to use them.
```
